StillPoint Notes

Ian Douglas
As an educator

I appreciated that StillPoint is open and iterative as to what the community would need, my language led to spirit led, I also appreciated the resource was “multi-valent” and inclusive, from being a space that community groups can use — not just rent — people could come in for one-off meetings, share their own theories, their community group, their yoga practice or concert series, they could use it as a kind of “ministry of hospitality,” —— with a real dedication to the year-round community.
 It has a hospitality ethic, with some nitty gritty details, how do you do a fair pricing model, still keep the lights on. The business side was interesting but the primacy to the community groups was fun. At the same time, education, conversation, learning — what could StillPoint do to brand themselves, what is the gap they can stand in over an above being hospitable?

What are the larger conversations we could have about offshore wind? How does it impact the island. As an educator playing around with formats and pedagogies — three hours, week/afternoon, how do you set up a give and take, craft a place where everyone’s voice can be heard and how can you engineer some learning — in a learning space…? 
Offshore got bogged down, let’s not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Let’s do an easier lift, Let’s try three Friday Nights with different conversations across our differences for the sake of building a stronger more resilient Martha’s Vineyard. Let’s do something! Try it on. That’s where the Friday Night Forums came from.

Consulting on program design on hospitality possibilities on Still Point offerings.

===

No predictions — StillPoint is the answer to “community in motion.” Particularly now our world nation community has become atomized and siloes or echo chambers or “ghettos” where communities are engaged in “right think” and there is not enough space for “embodied conversation” StillPoint is counter cultural — swimming against that atomism for a community that is multi-perspective — and giving possible point — to saving the United States.

Where do we have this spaces — grange, bowling leagues, country clubs, rotaries — bowling alone — Stillpoint can be a new expression of place of gathering where our places of gathering are going away.

===
===

Sandy Broyard

The beauty of StillPoint brings together people from different parts of the Island. The important things is the people are exposed to whatever. 

First of all, I know molly and parents, I wasn’t. When he was going to develop I was going to assume that it was going to be films, weddings, whatever… He had a big struggle with finding a discussion a programming that would be viable there. 

I facilitate — DANCE GROUP — we stopped getting together because of the pandemic. Would you allow us to be there once or twice a week. Thomas was inviting. Dancers love space. We were spoiled by Sally’s studio — it was very welcoming — StillPoint is “home” it’s a safe place for people to gather. It’s has an open door. Thomas is not totally in control. The programming is organic. And is responding to a n unspoken need of our community — it’s part of why it’s so welcoming — yoga, meditation, music, dance improv, Forums, and whatever Knocks at the Door.

There are so many community spaces, do we ned another? This is something that is slightly different, it nourishes us. When we have sustainability workshops, the converted people come. I think at StillPoint, people of different persuasions, and it’s why people feel welcome. 

The room is both personally safe and welcoming for the community. Possibility are curated — but not as a specific path, he is willing to b improvisational and I think that’s a good place to be. Especially w now — we are bing challenges as we haven’t in quite a while — we need a safe place to be and communities  now more than ever.

In terms of conservation everything is being stepped up - updating bylaws, responding to planting == protecting the community and doing forward — what we need to do in our back yards. 

The purpose of art is to challenge, to change the way we are experiencing our lives in what we see, do and act. That’s why art is so important.   What lingered for me, and I went to the movie. I came away from Saturday without a clear idea of what Cabin Music is. I don’t need to understand what’s happening in his movie. What do people remark on. We all have unique thoughts… It was kind of odd, it was in the service of his idea.

I think the fluidity of StillPoint now present opportunities that haven’t been thought up that could take part there. The undocumented who are very — 20-30 years ago there was a dance that a Brazilian woman could put together. The bridges have not really been formed. When our daughter is here we have cleaners and I talked with some of these women. Their stories are heartbreaking — she has children who are 7-9. she’s making money so they can find a place to live. Another lives in the basement and never has hot water because there are 15 people who live above her.

Curiosity is so important. StillPoint encourages curiosity. That can lead to a greater sense of responsibility to oneself and community. Expanding awareness is a grownup sense of play — it’s exploring, children explore, And I very happy it’s there I know it will.

===


Carole Vandal

I came home to heal, retired at 55. Came home native communities and people who’re medicine people — you can’t separate walk from life. Deeper sense that when I met him 11 years ago. 

Inwards — one summer… to be able to have a conversation like we did, understanding on a compassionate way.

Former wetlands biologist — I taught kids a lot of science, monitoring rivers and we did a little meditation before you spoke to the person next to you. Thats’ what I wanted to do anyway — to help people heal. Medicine man said go home and I did.

I felt the presence of my ancestors on that land. Came and I want to say hi to them. The land speaks to you and allows the place to speak to you. We have councils. Music in itself is healing. I’m a Native American flute player. It’s good that it moves you in away  that moves you. that society has beaten out of us.

The heartbeat of the land, when you’re dancing with the drum, you’re one with the land. We are humbled by the land so when we take we say this is for. Go and walk that land. 

I spoke out for StillPoint. The hoops he had to jump through were awful. I wanted to be more impactful to have this island be “undisturbed.”

The building proposes to be the place to gather to have tea and talk. 

Clear your mind and be open to what the universe will bring you when you go there. It’s the heart of this island is what I felt. It’s the perfect place for people to meet — about bringing the world’s beck to a place where we can talk to each other. to take the time out to breathe and then gather your thoughts. When we’re in the presence of someone it allows you to take that breath, speak from your heart and let your follow.

Thomas bringing the magic to it.

Aquinnah Cultural Center just agreed to gather and partner with StillPoint we all have trauma in our genes that tames our genes. It’s not about guilt, it’s about feeling there and let it flow.

Native Americans — we’re going to do this in a good way — your bringing yourself in a full way, and when you listen you hear things that you’re supposed to to hear.

A place where we can see each other without skin or spirit, an just be present.

 I want folks to put all that past behind and go see it, and be present.

===

Allison

===

we’re open ideas and hearing what people have to say —
blindspots are an interest for me
I’m always coming from a place of how I see something and there’s are a whole bunch of possibilities that others may be able to present that might change how I’m thinking.

 blindspots are an interest for me
— Stillpoint / is coming to things in the spirit of curiosity
I’ve always felt hindered by being stuck inn my body, life, story, family, And I think there “something that I’m not seeing.”
That’s been with me for a long time.
Throughout my life I have sought out things that allow me to have a breakthrough.
In an effort to unstick myself I have unstuck myself 
You can get beyond. There is more — not too glorify some endless search
It has always been thrilling to understand something more than I seen before.
 StillPoint is 

When I am seeing it in my self — I always thing that whatever I see as something true, it’s probably something more. and listening helps.

My truth is not the whole truth.

You kinda found the right job… It does appear I got to the right place.

How does curiosity become a hunch about what StillPoint is.

Part of this process has been doing a dance between I have take responsibility for helping to creating the container — the definition of this space to the world and start filing it.
And then there’s knowledge that “it’s bigger than me.”

It was intentional when we spoke before that I would not talk much, because StillPoint was being shaped by people. And I am given a responsibility  entrusted with that 

Thomas and I work off each other very well
But, Is there a danger in how we are agreeing.

I trust that there’s some kind of thing going on in the universe that people will be drawn to this place. My job is protecting, that finding a balance and using my intuition in discovering what’s good

Is the three-day event with a lot of money I want to find that event that actually moves people in StillPoint in a way that I am entrusted.

There’s a real spiritual intention with respect to where I’m coming from. It’s different. 

I think it comes down to trust, as a curator, trusting the process, to be in the process. What I”m fining is that when we trust the process it really does unfold beautifully. There’s flow. When we fight the process it’s sticky. 

You have to trust your intuition and gut. 

The sis the challenge. You get a feeling about something, right, em, this is not right!
The feeling can be something like “I’m not feeling this.” There’s something that has come through a 

Then there’s the process of coming to a no. That requires a justification. That should be tangible.

A transformative listening is vital.

Not sending the text and speaking in person
There’s intention
What we (people) are doing, Maybe there’s something about intent that what’s happening at StillPoint 

Being present and showing up. There’s something about showing up, to be a participant.

Being intent in the moment of being social is really hard. 
It’s a place of trauma and grief.

How do we have integrity in a social sphere. 

I struggle with this as a person. I find it to be an endless quandary — how do I show up as myself without being judged or being afraid.

It’s hard to be honest in the social sphere. To me there is some intent at StillPoint to encourage honesty, curiosity — people can find themself in that sphere.

By creating place that feels to be good in, that there is a social boundary, a sense of.